Michelle Alexander 's , The New Jim Crow is a comprehensive narrative and critique on the modern age of colorblindness . 
Alexander partitions her book into three main sections : the history of race , the influence of the War on Drugs , and various court cases , to put together a complete insight on how the United States has become a society which utilizes mass incarceration in a way to preserve an underlying racial caste system . 
Alexander 's stance is unyielding , and her rhetoric throughout the book is bold , influential and passionate . 
Her work elicits emotion and rage towards the US penal system , yet rarely offers solutions to the problems outlined . 
Regardless , Alexander generates endless discourse regarding the problems a " colorblind society " may face today . 
Finally , careful examination of three foreign countries : Germany , Turkey and Canada , yields both a thorough and international perspective to some of the many issues highlighted in Alexander 's book . 
Research on other countries will additionally serve as reference points for which the United States can be compared , and ultimately determine whether or not Michelle Alexander 's concerns are sound . 
In order for Alexander to clearly illustrate her point that mass incarceration is the modern equivalent of slavery and Jim Crow laws , she begins her book with examples of the racialized social control which permeate American history . 
The author makes it apparent that she believes there is a cyclical nature to the progress and setbacks that African-Americans have endured ; Alexander believes that those in favor of a system based on racial hierarchy have always been successful in condemning Blacks to a lower caste , regardless of apparent progress towards a colorblind society . 
Only recently has the notion of race emerged in American history . 
There was once a time when both poor white and black citizens occupied roughly the same space in the social hierarchy . 
Poor whites were hardly treated any better than slaves , and the " Planter Elites " , the few wealthy Americans who owned the majority of farmable land , employed all people willing to work in various forms of indentured servitude . 
Workers were treated poorly by the Planters , and an inevitable rebellion occurred , forcing the wealthy to search for an alternative method to maintain their power . 
Their solution was to split workers by color and provide to white workers not only racial bribes , but the illusion that they were far more valuable than their black counterparts . 
Loic Wacquant succinctly summarizes the evolution of race based segregation , declaring that " Racial division was a consequence , not a precondition of slavery , but once it was instituted it became detached from its initial function and acquired a social potency all its own " . 
It was not until the Reconstruction Era from 1863-1877 that sought to free slaves and integrate people of color into society . 
During this period , tremendous strides toward " equality " were made ; the 13th and 14th Amendments along with granting African-Americans full citizenship were among the most significant examples of progress , and in 1870 , 15 % of elected officials in the South were black citizens . 
Unfortunately , the " brief moment in the sun " that blacks enjoyed was spurious at best . 
The concept of racial classes had long been ingrained in society and racist whites vowed to reverse the progress that had been made . 
History was to repeat itself , racist groups formatted a new means for segregation , this time in the form of Jim Crow laws . 
The history and formation of the Jim Crow laws is vitally analogous to the birth of mass incarceration , as it serves as the first example of the perpetual resistance to full equality for African-Americans . 
Alexander argues that separation of race into tiered classes will always exist in some form or another due to " preservation through reformation " . 
While the means for which segregation is maintained may change , a subordinate racial caste will always persist . 
In the case of Jim Crow laws , a lower social status was created for blacks in an assortment of new ways . 
The South argued adamantly that the north had set up positions in society for blacks which they were not yet ready to fill . 
Rapidly , convict laws and new legislation pushed blacks back into the lower class they had just fought to escape from . 
Politicians even seemed to compete in shaping ever stricter laws to keep blacks from garnering any sort of political or social power . 
These traumatic policies lasted for decades , meeting little resistance until a fundamental legislative decision in 1954 . 
The decision in Brown vs. Board of Education typically marks the end of the Jim Crow Era , and mandated that public schools allow students from any race to attend . 
Alexander argues this decision marks the end of Jim Crow not solely on its verdict , but also because its outcome threatened an entire system of decades of legal discrimination . 
In the following years , grassroots movements and large scale civil rights rallies helped to quicken the pace with which legislature was altered to once again support African-Americans . 
Both the civil rights act of 1964 and the voting rights act of 1965 formally tore apart any remaining traces of the Jim Crow era . 
However , Alexander 's theoretical cycle was about to begin anew , and black subjugation needed a new face once more , this time under the guise of " law and order " . 
Subordination of people of color , despite an " age of colorblindness " is the foundation for Michelle Alexander 's book . 
The author 's entire thesis lies upon her idea that an entire group of people are subject to a lower permanence within the system of racial hierarchy . 
Her claim for a cyclical nature of subordinance makes it clear that once the Jim Crow era was terminated , some new form of oppression would need to arise . 
Alexander makes it very clear that mass incarceration is " the new jim crow " . 
Due to somewhat shifting societal norms , conservative whites needed new language to address how to maintain their power within the social hierarchy . 
Michelle mentions how " as the rules of acceptable discourse changed , segregationists distanced themselves from an explicitly racist agenda " . 
The new acceptable rhetoric would consequently be changed to " cracking down on crime " . 
It would not help that at this time , Ronald Reagan was running for president and campaigning on racial hostility without explicitly mentioning it . 
Reagan would firmly deny any claims that he resisted desegregation , and because he actively avoided racist language , it made it almost impossible for liberals to prove he was inherently racist . 
Reagan was consequently elected president of the United States , and in an effort to " restore state and local government power " , launched the War on Drugs in 1982 . 
The Reagan administration 's War on Drugs was brutal , targeting poor black citizens and locking them up , relegating them to an inferior status within the United States . 
Alexander claims that the age of mass incarceration is a direct consequence of the outrageous actions that Reagan and all following presidents have taken . 
Alexander states that there is no denying the sensationalized media attention that Reagan fabricated to target crack cocaine 's prevalence in inner-city neighborhoods . 
Many of such neighborhoods were populated by African-Americans ; and therefore , many stories published on crack abuse included clear racial subtexts . 
Media attention grew on what was now " the country 's greatest issue " , and in 1986 , the House passed legislation which funnelled more than $ 2 billion to fighting the war on drugs . 
With such great amounts of increased funding for local and state-wide police departments , an increase in incarceration rates was inevitable , and by 1991 , " one-fourth of young African American men were now under the control of the criminal justice system " . 
Alexander points out that " by the end of 2007 , more than 7 million Americans - or one in every 31 adults - were behind bars , on probation or on parole " . 
The power bestowed on police officers from the government only augmented with time , and citizens of color now faced a wide new variety of concerns . 
Police utilized tools such as random searches and pretext stops to their advantage on anyone who seemed " suspicious " . 
The use of drug sniffing dogs is even considered legal , and if the dog appears to sense anything out of the ordinary , the officers then have probable cause to legally search that person or vehicle . 
Many of such radical search and seizure actions were learned through " Operation Pipeline " , a program intended to teach police how to use these methods to search as many citizens as possible ; amusingly , Operation Pipeline is said to have a failure rate of more than 95 % when it comes to locating illegal drugs . 
However , due to the dramatic increase in sheer numbers of people that police are able to stop every day , the number arrests have risen drastically as well . 
American prisons began to flood with first time drug offenders , the majority of which were of color . 
Alexander 's main focus is the War on Drugs and its direct link to the mass incarceration of African American men that has been occurring since it went into effect . 
It soon became clear that the War on Drugs was disproportionately affecting African Americans , and the official explanation for this was that minorities commit more crime than whites , an opinion consistent with the historical view of Blacks as lazy , untrustworthy criminals . 
Yet empirical data has debunked this myth , showing that people of all races use and sell drugs at similar rates , and that white youth are actually the most likely of any race group to possess or sell drugs . 
This leaves no other explanation than racism itself . 
Alexander illuminates two avenues through which discrimination occurs , despite the United States ' claims of equality and colorblindness . 
The first is through the discretion given to law enforcement when deciding which areas and groups of people to search for drugs . 
Unlike other crimes , drug use or sale is not usually reported , as would be the case with a burglary or assault . 
Drug use is seen as a " victimless " crime , and it is therefore up to law enforcement to make decisions about who to search . 
Alexander addresses several popular theories about why African American neighborhoods were targeted , and uses scientific studies to disprove each one . 
She then puts forth her conclusion , which is simply that law enforcement officials harbored racial biases , likely implicit and unconscious- a sort of accidental racism . 
This is , of course , the result of centuries of societal and learned racism , but Alexander specifically brings up the media in her argument . 
She explains that the media disproportionately featured African American offenders in news stories about street crime , leading to public perceptions of Blacks as criminals . 
One study found that when asked to picture a drug user , 95 % of people studied pictured a black person , and postulated that this bias would extend to law enforcement officers as well , who were allowed to act on their biases through the decision of who to target . 
This is an intriguing argument , and unfortunately Alexander declines to go any further in her analysis . 
If this situation is the case , it would be more compelling if she had included more data demonstrating the effect on media on public perception when it comes to race and crime . 
Nevertheless , it is a striking example of the way social forces impact the implementation of law , and an argument against using a paradigm of legal formalism . 
While these biases certainly have a large effect , there are factors which make this type of targeting easier to carry out than if it were directed at a more privileged group . 
Alexander goes on to explain that while drug use happens in all kinds of neighborhoods , low-income areas pose less risk to law enforcement than white suburbs where there could be politically powerful people in residence . 
In addition , " hypersegregation " of poor African Americans into specific communities keep them separate from more privileged groups , who may not even be aware of what goes on within them and the practices adopted by law enforcement in the War on Drugs . 
This hypersegregation is a result of decades of redlining and white flight , as we learned about in Race : The Power of an Illusion . 
It makes racially biased targeting a normalized fact of life for many African Americans in low-income communities . 
In addition to being more likely to be stopped and searched for drugs , African Americans are likely to face harsher sentencing because of the distinction made between crack , which was more prevalent in low-income communities , and powder cocaine , which could be found in white suburbs . 
Federal laws punished " crack offenses one hundred times more severely than offenses involving powder cocaine " . 
For example , possession of 500 grams of cocaine resulted in a five-year mandatory sentence , but possession of only 5 grams of crack resulted in the same sentence . 
This law was based on the belief of congress ( informed by drug abuse " experts " and law enforcement ) that crack was " more dangerous to society " . 
Yet the policy was clearly discriminatory , as 93 % of convicted crack offenders were black , compared to 5 % white . 
The focus on both crack and on Black communities mean that in 2000 in 7 states African Americans made up 80-90 % of all drug offenders sent to prison . 
Yet Alexander notes the difficulty of bringing claims of discrimination to the courts : " To establish an equal-protection violation , one must prove intentional discrimination-conscious bias " . 
This is the same concept we discussed in class , during our section on race and the law . 
The Wards Cove Packing Co. v. Antonio case is one example of this mentality , as the ruling effectively denied statistical evidence as a means to make a discrimination claim . 
It set a precedent that put the focus on intent rather than effect . 
As discussed , implicit bias is difficult to measure or prove , and may not even be intentional . 
This severely limits the recourse that African Americans are able to pursue , and essentially maintains the status quo by forcing them to be tried for drug offenses . 
Many people who are charged with drug offenses are encouraged to plead guilty in order to get a " reduced " sentence , and many do so in order to get back to their families . 
Yet the felony label brings with it a host of legal restrictions that many are not even aware of . 
While disenfranchisement gets most of the attention , a felony label can also prevent one from serving on juries , make them ineligible for federally funded health , welfare , food , housing , and education assistance , suspend their driver 's license , prevent them from enlisting or owning a firearm , have them deported if not a citizen , and ensure their imprisonment if convicted of another crime . 
Throughout the War on Drugs , the federal government put forth policies that exacerbated the challenges associated with re-entry for those convicted of drug offenses . 
The Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 and Clinton 's " One Strike and You 're Out " policy ensured " strict lease enforcement and eviction of public housing tenants who engage in criminal activity " . 
Agencies could also keep out applicants who were " believed to be using illegal drugs or abusing alcohol " and were encouraged to adopt their own exclusionary criteria in addition to criminal record screenings . 
Employers are similarly unwilling to hire ex-felons , and Alexander asserts that excluding ex-felons is the newest form of racial discrimination . 
The toll that the War on Drugs has taken can be seen not only in the individuals who struggle psychologically from the stigma of a felony label but also in the grossly discriminatory statistics which describe the current criminal justice system . 
In the past decade , drug offenders have made up 61 % of growth in the federal system . 
In 2006 , 1 in 14 African American men was in jail , compared to 1 in 106 white men . 
These statistics make Alexander 's assertions difficult to argue with . 
The reason this discriminatory cycle of arrests and sentencing has not yet been broken is due to a number of landmark Supreme Court rulings which have made it difficult to challenge the current system . 
Michelle Alexander profiles numerous Supreme Court rulings in the novel to show how mass incarceration has been codified by the judicial system , even though the legislation stems from the executive and congressional branches . 
Alexander focuses in on a handful , though she mentions myriad more . 
These Supreme Court rulings increased the hurdles for proving racial bias while at the same time facilitating the bias . 
Alexander argues that racism defined today in terms of colorblindness , it is nearly impossible to prove racial discrimination or bias against an immunized government and police force . 
McClesky v. Kemp in 1987 was an important ruling on what constituted racial bias . 
McClesky was a black man convicted of killing a white man in Georgia during an armed robbery , and then sentenced to death . 
Prosecutors have the discretion in determining the length and severity of a sentence . 
As a result , "  [ Georgian prosecutors ] sought the death penalty in 70 percent of cases involving black defendants and white victims , but only 19 percent…involving white defendants and black victims " . 
The NAACP represented his case as a violation of the Fourteenth and Eighth Amendment . 
A study was conducted about sentencing based on race and the use of death penalty and controlled for non-racial factors found that black perpetrators were more likely to receive a death sentence . 
The Supreme Court ruled 5-4 against the plaintiff , since the plaintiff could not prove that " the prosecutor in his particular case had sought the death penalty because of race or…racial reasons " . 
Even with the blatant statistical evidence , racial bias could not be proven . 
Harmelin v. Michigan in 1990 was a crushing ruling towards sentencing practices in the US . 
Before the Drug Act of 1986 was passed , the longest sentence ever imposed on first-time drug offenses was one year . 
With no prior history of convictions , Harmelin , a black man , received a life sentence for selling 672g of crack cocaine . 
Argued under the Eighth Amendment , the Court dismissed the notion that the sentence was cruel or unusual punishment but rather that it was appropriate . 
This coincides with state 's legislation of " three strikes ,  " that automatically mandates a life sentence on the third drug charge , regardless of other factors . 
The minimum sentencing drastically increased prisoner 's time and limited their options for parole or furlough . 
The issue of jury selection and discrimination was addressed in Purkett v. Elm in 1995 . 
It is longstanding practice for both the prosecutors and the defense to utilize peremptory strikes . 
In a previous case , the Supreme Court ruled that race discrimination in jury selection was illegal based on the Fourteenth Amendment . 
While the ban existed on paper , in practice the Court did not enforce the decision . 
The Court instead accepted " any explanation that is persuasive , or even plausible " even if others deem the ridiculous , trusting in the lawyers to act accordingly . 
A prosecutor is then able to preemptively strike a black juror for superficial and meaningless reasons such as having " long curly hair ,  " " mustache and goatee type beard ,  " or " hats or sunglasses " . 
Not only prosecutors , but police have been granted large discretion . 
In Whren v. United States , decided in 1996 , two black men were pulled over for turning without signaling , a minor traffic violation . 
Subsequently , the car was searched and Whren was convicted of felonies for possessing crack cocaine . 
The plaintiff argued under the Fourth Amendment that the search constituted unreasonable search and seizure . 
The Supreme Court unanimously ruled against the plaintiff , so police on any driving violations can search a car " even when there is no evidence whatsoever that the motorist has engaged in drug crime " . 
This allowed police officers to use minor traffic violations as a basis for their racial biases in practice . 
In 1996 , Armstrong v. United States put plaintiffs in an impossible bind to prove racial bias by the prosecution . 
Public defenders noticed a disturbing trend that all their cases for crack distribution were for black people . 
The case , based out in California , asked the courts to unseal the prosecution 's notes and documents since they found that in the past 3 years all their cases involved no white defendants . 
The Court ruled that the plaintiffs would need evidence of racial bias to release the prosecution 's documents since " considerable deference is owed the exercise of prosecutorial discretion " . 
The prosecutor 's unchecked power leaves black defendants vulnerable . 
The most recent case Alexander profiled was Alexander v. Sandoval in 2001 which left civilians fully unable to challenge the racial discrimination through the Courts . 
The Supreme Court ruled that private citizens or activist groups are not allowed to sue the government over violations of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , but that only the government can reprimand itself for federal legislation noncompliance . 
With the previously stated cases elaborated on , Alexander explains how racism became embedded in our society and the new norm , similar to the past forms like Jim Crow and slavery . 
These examples remind the reader how the justice system does not operate in a vacuum , and is susceptible to social and political influence . 
The New Jim Crow was an extensively and thoroughly researched book to prove Alexander 's central thesis that the US penal system is used as a tool of social control , creating a caste system . 
The author presents her opinion and balances well between the historical context and present day issues and the complex factors , showing the issue is not black and white . 
Alexander shows obvious preference towards her thesis , not showing the counter-argument in an unbiased manner . 
What the novel omits , the author readily admitted : there was no mention of women in prison as well as any solutions . 
Instead , the novel was a convincing argument meant to open discussion and stir outrage . 
In the final chapter , Alexander has a dialogue directly with the reader on specific issues such as Obama 's legacy , affirmative action , and public opinion . 
With the open ending , Alexander leaves the reader reflecting on mass incarceration and black status in society as a whole . 
With multiple references to other nation 's practices in the book , research shows interesting parallels and contrasts with Germany , Turkey , and Canada . 
It is particularly interesting to compare the United States ' criminal justice system to those of other nations , as some striking differences may be noted . 
Germany is a fitting country to make a comparison to , given its similarities to the US in terms of development and " western " culture . 
Yet Germany 's strong state and complex relationship with human rights and morality post-WWII make it especially fascinating , and cause some noteworthy differences from the US model . 
Germany 's approach to crime is divided into two categories : Verbechen ( crimes with a minimum 1-year punishment ) and Vergehen , or " minor crimes. " Vergehen includes a number of crimes that would be categorized as felonies in the US , including many drug crimes . 
Unlike the very punitive nature of the US criminal justice system , Germans take a " harm reduction approach " to drug offenses , and to crime in general . 
This strategy " focuses on minimizing the risks and hazards of drug use and emphasizes health care , prevention , and regulation of individual use . 
Rather than target minor possession or sales , law enforcement focuses on more significant crimes , such as drug trafficking " . 
This reduces the number of offenders in prison for minor drug offenses , and addicted inmates are provided with detoxification/substitution therapy or needle exchange programs . 
From the outset , the German approach to drug use is designed to facilitate reintegration rather than exclusion from society . 
Despite this fundamental difference , there are some similarities between German and US systems that should not be ignored . 
One is the growth and prevalence of " confession agreements " , or plea bargains , which has increased in Germany in the past thirty years . 
As in the US , confession agreements are particularly popular in cases involving , among other things , drugs . 
Just like defendants in the US often plead guilty for crimes they did not commit , " Claims that current practices are undermining the truth-finding process have been made " in regards to Germany . 
However , Germans who plead guilty to drug offenses do not face the plethora of " invisible punishment [ s ]  " that Alexander outlines in The New Jim Crow . 
One of these is disenfranchisement , the revoking of an individual 's right to vote . 
Whereas the United States pursues a policy of permanent exclusion from public participation for ex-felons , Germany 's approach largely allows for continued political engagement , a guard against the creation of an " undercaste " such as that of the US . 
In the United States , " virtually all " prisoners are disenfranchised , and " many probationers and those on parole are denied the right to vote " . 
In Germany , however , disenfranchisement is categorized as a specific punishment , not simply a condition that comes with a felony conviction . 
The courts may only deny a defendant the right to vote in response to specific offenses that are " legislatively declared to be either attacking the foundation of the German state or directly connected to voting fraud and the abuse of the ballot box " . 
For those who are disenfranchised , the punishment may only last up to five years after the completion of a prison sentence . 
Consequently , very few Germans actually find themselves disenfranchised . 
In fact , " In 2003 , only 2 defendants in all of Germany were sentenced to the loss of franchise " . 
Interestingly , racism is one of the key factors that caused this difference in policy across the two countries . 
Criminal justice approaches in the US and Western Europe followed a fairly similar pattern through the 20th c , increasing former prisoners ' abilities to participate in public life until the 70s , when the US approach shifted to become much more punitive than in Europe . 
As Ewald and Rottinghaus state , " In part , the difference can be attributed to the overall politicization of crime in the United States and to the racialized discourse of that politicization " . 
In the United States , increasingly punitive sentencing and disenfranchisement was intended to counteract the effects of emerging civil rights legislation . 
The more homogenous nature of populations in Europe meant that offenders were seen as belonging to the majority group , and so there was no racialized motivation to exclude them from political participation . 
In Germany specifically , those who weren 't white and German generally weren 't citizens , so they didn 't have voting rights to take away . 
An American obsession with " defining the moral citizen " and a conception of citizenship as somehow dependent on morality also contributed to the prevalence of disenfranchisement , and was only exacerbated by the negative images of African Americans that Alexander touches upon . 
Relatedly , the United States justice structure lent itself to discrimination . 
In the 1974 case Richardson v. Ramirez , the Supreme Court ruled that denying voting rights to prisoners was constitutional . 
This had larger consequences and has been interpreted into modern times . 
The European Court of Human Rights , in contrast , focuses more on consensus and proportionality in sentencing , rather than a strict interpretation of a historical document . 
This dynamic and pragmatic rather than principle-focused approach has led to more protection of the rights of convicts in Europe and specifically Germany . 
The Turkish prison system has numerous flaws and human rights concerns . 
It comparatively incarcerates less of its population than the US : 228 per 100 , 000 . 
However , Turkey has been growing its prison population intensely . 
From 2001 to 2015 , the population ballooned from 55 , 000 to over 160 , 000 . 
The increased prison size can be attributed to many factors , an important one being the growing intolerance for political and academic dissidents as well as critical journalists . 
Turkey 's death penalty was established with the Criminal Code Act of 1926 but limited in 1991 and then fully abolished in 2004 . 
Prisoners are not allowed to vote during their time incarcerated , but the right to vote is always restored upon their release . 
Turkey is a member state of the UN and the country values international treaties between the importance of constitutional and ordinary domestic laws , as per Article 90 of their Constitution , amended in 2004 . 
Accordingly , Turkey is a signatory of the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Standard Minimum Rules for Treatment of Prisoners which outline the legal and humane way to treat both individuals and prisoners . 
Turkey is not a member of the European Union ( EU ) , but has a distinct desire to join . 
Turkey 's prison forms have been explicitly aimed at meeting EU prison standards so that they are an eligible candidate for membership . 
Turkey has a similar division of power to the US with a judicial , congressional , and executive branch . 
Within the judicial branch , there are three main types of courts : ordinary that deal with criminal and civil cases , military , and administrative . 
The military court is responsible for both military personnel as well as terrorism cases . 
Turkey has a strong centralized government , and as a result the local authorities have little power and the courts are run mainly on a federal level . 
Additionally , Turkey does not have a jury system ; instead , all decisions are made by a panel of judges . 
Lawyers and judges also receive similar training , and considering professional equals . 
There are three main types of prisons : closed , semi-open , and open for which the Ministry of Justice is responsible for establishing policy . 
The fluctuations correlate with differing prison control ideologies and relative violence with the Kurds . 
In 1980 , there was a military coup d 'état in Turkey , meaning the military controlled the government and the prisons . 
As a result , there were widespread reports of human rights violations and system abuse of the prisoners . 
Additionally , the Kurdistan Workers ' Party 's ( PKK ) violence in Turkey began in 1984 , marking the start of renewed violence and Kurdish imprisonment . 
" Death fasts " began in 1996 , protesting the beating , isolation , denial of medical care , and the right to wear civilian attire . 
These fasts lead to the death of 12 prisoners and the permanent neurological deficits of many others . 
The prisoners were largely ones held on terrorism charges related to the PKK and Marxist-propaganda . 
Violence in the Turkish prisons was rampant in the 1990s . 
Within dormitory-style prisons , the prisoners were able to organize their death fasts and continue organizing their political organizations , even though they were deemed illegal by the government . 
As a result , in 2000 the Turkish government introduced a new " F-type prison " that constituted of cells rather than open wards and were high-level , maximum security facilities . 
Prisoners objected and instigated a new round of death fasts in October 2000 , run by 11 terrorist , leftist organizations in conjunction . 
Turkish prisons were largely overcrowded , and the government believed this posed to great of a threat . 
Their solution with the F-type prisoners would ensure greater safety , though the prisoners viewed this as a violation of their rights and as a tool of social control . 
The fast lasted four years and lead to the deaths of over 120 prisoners . 
Under President Erdogan 's tenure , the relationship with the Kurdish people has disintegrated and lead to an infringement of free speech and systematic jailings . 
The law choose to not distinguish between active PKK combatant and civilian protester , as well . 
In 2011 , 44 people were detained from the Union of Kurdish Communities for violating Article 301 of the Turkish Penal Code of " degenerating Turkishness " based on speeches and their academic works . 
The trials was run with suspicious procedure : the prosecution utilized secret witness testimony which allowed for no cross-examination by the defense . 
The Human Rights Watch has extensively documented recent incidents . 
After leaks in 2013 pertaining to systematic corruption in the government , indicating Erdogan 's family as well , there were widespread arrests on the charge of conspiring to aid illegal organizations like the PKK . 
Two judges involved in granting bail to 62 police officers and journalist were then subsequently arrested on charges of attempting to start a coup . 
This was a concerning example of executive overreach into the judicial system and disturbing the autonomy . 
A study conducted in 2014 showed that Turkey had extremely low rates of social trust , or rather trust in strangers . 
The World Values Survey placed Turkey second to last , ranked just behind Trinidad and Tobago , with a percentage of trust at 4.8 equal to Rwanda . 
This acutely low trust can help account for the hostility against Kurds by the Turkish majority , where over 90 percent of the country is not in favor of an autonomous Kurdistan . 
Additionally , it helps explain the sentencing practices of the judicial system . 
Turkey is similar to the US in the sense that incarceration is used a tool of social control and prisoners are disenfranchised , though there is no lifetime ban as there is in certain states of the US . 
Turkey and the US are different though as Turkey has no widespread drug use epidemic to combat . 
Their main drug issue is with large-scale trafficking . 
Additionally , Turkey is subject to more intense scrutiny since it is attempting to join the EU , while the US is already a world power . 
The idea behind picking Canada as a comparison for the United States was to examine if proximity of the two countries had any effect on one another . 
Several of the practices and policies within the US have put pressures on Canada for reformation and vice versa . 
Examining whether or not this extended to the judicial system , drug laws and disenfranchisement was only the next logical step . 
It should first be stated that Canada and the United States have very similar sentencing practices . 
Both sport a judge-jury format , where in Canada , the judge will make his or her decisions based off the Criminal Codes , analogous to the US Constitution . 
These similarities provide a good control to compare any differences between sentencing and legal policies . 
In terms of minimum sentencing , the United States is far more strict with mandatory sentencing especially for drug related crimes . 
For example , in New York , the minimum sentence for 4 Oz or more of a " hard drug " is 15 years . 
Additionally , California is infamous for its " three-strike " policy , where after your third conviction , you may face a minimum sentence of 25 years in prison . 
In Canada , there are far fewer rules about mandatory sentencing , and in many drug related crime cases , the maximum sentence you can receive is more lenient than a US minimum sentence . 
There are two types of maximum sentences for drug related crimes in Canada , The first is a summary conviction for possession or sale of a hard drug , and the second being indictment by the judge for a similar offense . 
The maximum punishments for each are 6 months in jail and a $ 1 , 000 fine ( for summary conviction ) , and up to 7 years in prison ( indictment ) . 
Punishments in Canada for possession or sale of marijuana are also more lenient than US law , being 6 months and up to a 5 years maximum sentence respectively . 
If you compare the treatment of a third time marijuana possession offense in both Canada and say California , we see huge differences in the lengths of prison sentences . 
In the US you could possibly receive a minimum sentence of 25 years , where in Canada the maximum might be roughly 7 years . 
Alexander mentions in her book that prosecutors within the US have the option of stacking charges or giving you multiple strikes for the same crime or drug offence . 
As mentioned , this could have serious negative consequences , especially if the accused is innocent , but feels as though they must plead guilty in exchange for the shorter sentence because he or she can not afford the legal fees . 
Apart from the harsh sentencing differences , the United States ' prison population is almost 6 times that of Canada . 
For every 100 , 000 people , 693 are incarcerated in the US compared with only 106 from Canada . 
A large part of that difference can be attributed to the United States ' War on Drugs , as it drastically increased the prison population during the years it was most actively pursued . 
A few discrepancies between disenfranchisement within the two countries must also be quickly highlighted . 
As discussed , there are several ways in which going through the prison system in the United States can have serious effects on civil rights like the basic right to vote . 
Unlike the " invisible discrimination " that goes on within the US , a 2001 Canadian supreme court ruling made it so that " any ban on prisoners voting violates our constitution " . 
The fact that prisoners are allowed the right to vote in the canadian penal system and not the US should raise many questions on the bounds of disenfranchisement . 
As outlined , countries around the world take varying approaches to the issues of drug crime , disenfranchisement , and the role of race in their criminal justice systems . 
Germany , Turkey , and Canada all provide examples that the US can learn from in order to create a more just society . 
In The New Jim Crow , the narrative of the United States ' post-civil rights " colorblind " society is challenged by Michelle Alexander 's searing indictment of our racially discriminatory legal system , and it becomes evident that change is necessary . 
While Alexander may not provide a comprehensive plan to solve mass incarceration , the inspiration can come from the policies of other states . 
There are a number of ways the US can address these issues , but all require significant shifts in culture and dominant discourse . 
A less punitive conception of justice and an acknowledgement of the disproportionate racial effects of our current policies would go a long way in the initiation of lasting social change . 
